In the last lecture I showed you this documentation and I told you that we would dive into the operators
provided by observables but also into a number object.
And that is the subject a subject basically is like an observable but it allows you to conveniently
push it to emit new data during your code which might a bit more what you're looking for.
So let's see how it works.
Back in our code here I will treat a new service for this.
I will name it the users service and I will simply export this user's service class here and any year
I want to create a new property which I will name user activated and this will now be a new subject.
Subject should be imported from our exchange slash subject.
Just like observable from slash observable.
Now this subject here which you create here allows us to do some cool things.
First of all I will provide this service.
So in my provider's array I will add the users service here and then it will go to my user component
so the computer we load for individual user.
And here I want to add a new button below the paragraph where it will simply say activate and give to
some nice bootstrap styling with Button button primary and most importantly let's add a listener on
the way.
Is the method I want to execute wants to collect.
So in the types of code I will implement this method here and now I want to use my service so I need
to inject it in the constructor.
The is service so we'll bind it to a property named users service.
I don't need to provide that here because we provided in app module and with this I can use my user
service here and their user activated.
And now here I can call.
Next you might recall next from the home component where we pasters function which got an observer as
an argument to the create method when creating an observable.
And this is kind of comparable because here in the home component we created an observable by also establishing
the bridge to the observer.
Now Zapotec makes this even easier.
A subject is observable and observer at the same time.
This is why I can conveniently call next year and I can pass a value and hearable to simply send the
user ID as an argument.
So with that I'm kind of pushing a new data package which contains this ID.
And now in my app component let's say I want to display activated after a user if the user was activated.
So I will actually use stringin to place sure to check whether the user was activated and then display
some text.
So here I will simply say User 1 actually went to the property which doesn't exist yet.
If this is true then I want to output a string where I simply add in parentheses activated offered as
user name.
Otherwise I will add an empty string so nothing and I will copy that for the second user where I check
the user to activated property and of course this is a very well rough approach.
But it's about the subject in the end.
Right.
So I will add these two properties to my app component user 1 activated which is false and user to act
the way that which is false.
And then more importantly I will implement on in it here make sure to add the import from at angular
core and at the end you want in a method.
And then here the cool thing comes I want to use my service so I will inject that my user has service
from here user services to type.
Make sure to add to import and with that inject it let me complete that I can now use my user act the
way that subject and as I said it's observable and observer at the same time.
So we use the observer part by pushing a new value.
Now let's use the observable part and subscribe to it.
And here I can now therefore simply use the data.
So I will note that I will get an idea eventually and in there I will check if ID equals one well then
I want to set user 1 activated to true overwise.
I will check if ID is equal to 2.
And here I would set these user to the user to activate it equal to true.
So there's of course again a very rough approach but what you should see once this reload is that if
I click activate we see user to activate it.
And if I do the same for user 1 This works too.
So now we're using a subject to have observable and Observer in one convenient object.
It kind of is comparable to the event emitter which ships with angular.
And actually that event emitter is built on such a subject.
It is a good practice to use such a subject instead of DBAN dimeter.
So the next time you want to implement cross-compiling communication consider using a subject instead
of the Venger emitter as you saw next.
Instead of emit is the function to push a new value and subscriber's to one to consume it.
Also you could use the functions you saw here like complete or error and react to them by implementing
the right callbacks in the subscribe method.
And last but not least don't forget to unsubscribe if there is a chance of leaving this component or
this part of the app and therefore there is the danger of creating a memory leak